We are working towards creating a space for creatives in the video game and interactive art industry to work and play together through a shared place open to the community. We are a donation-based non-profit run by a board of creatives much like yourself! We are additionally determined to include minorities and underrepresented groups in our community and hope to create a space that is fully inclusive and equitable. Come to us to collaborate with others to create something new together, show off your projects, or find fresh inspiration from a workshop or talk. You can even use our space to host an event of your own!
 
We love this community and want to provide a safe and welcoming place for us to get together, learn, and have fun.  We are asking that everyone who participates in The SiM to adhere to our community code of conduct, including our organizers, volunteers, and speakers.
 
It's not about you and me, it's about us - and the type of community we want to be.
 
    The Short Version 

The SiM is dedicated to providing a safe, harassment-free experience for everyone, regardless of gender, age, sexual orientation, disability, physical appearance, body size, race, or religion (or lack thereof). We do not tolerate harassment of participants in any form. 

Harassment includes, but is not limited to:
Offensive or unwelcome comments
Patterns of disruption or inappropriate social contact
Non-consensual physical contact, threats of violence, or unwelcome sexual attention
Deliberate misgendering or “outing” of any aspect of a person’s identity without consent
Touching or otherwise interfering with individuals in an immersive experience
For more examples, please see “The Long Version” which has more information

The SiM is also dedicated to providing a recruiting & sales-free space. This means no organized recruiting activities or sales pitches without explicit permission.

These policies apply to everyone participating in SiM events and online spaces. "Everyone" includes attendees, organizers, volunteers, sponsors, and event hosts. Participants violating the Code of Conduct may be sanctioned or asked to leave SiM events and online spaces.

Anyone can report a code of conduct violation by finding a SiM staff member or by emailing seattlesiminfo@gmail.com. You are also welcome to message us on the Discord.

For more detailed information about any of the above policies, please read “The Long Version” which can be found on our website.

The Long Version

    Community Goals

Our primary goal as a community is to create a space for creatives in the Video Game and Interactive Art Industry to work and play together through a shared Space open to everyone. We are additionally determined to include minorities and underrepresented groups in our community and hope to create a space that is fully inclusive and equitable. Come to us to show off your projects, collaborate with others to create something new together, or find fresh inspiration from one of our event talks. You can even use our space to host an event of your own!

To make sure we are reaching our intended audience, we will be running events with a variety of registration policies. Some events will be open to everyone, and we may run events that are restricted to specific groups of people. Regardless of the registration policy, we want to make sure this code of conduct keeps all our participants safe at our events. 

    We want to provide a community space that is.
 
Welcoming:  We want to create access to opportunities for education, connection, and community around arts and technology. No prior experience is required; we welcome people of all skill levels, fields, and backgrounds.
Normalizing:  We want to normalize the presence and contribution of historically underrepresented groups.
Safe: Our events and online spaces are dedicated to providing safe, harassment-free spaces regardless of gender and gender identity, age, sexual orientation, disability, physical appearance, body size, race, or religion (or lack thereof). Our physical space is also dedicated to being drug and alcohol-free. Drugs and alcohol pose an inherent safety risk to many members of our community whom we want to feel included.
Intersectional: We want to explicitly recognize that individuals have multiple identities and support them as best we can. We define our success as everyone’s success.

    Code of Conduct
To achieve our community goals, everyone must adhere to the following code of conduct. "Everyone" includes attendees, organizers, volunteers, sponsors, and event hosts… aka everyone involved in the event or participating in our online spaces.
 
    Harassment free space
 
The SiM is dedicated to providing a harassment-free experience for everyone, regardless of gender, age, sexual orientation, disability, physical appearance, body size, race, beliefs, or religion (or lack thereof). Sexist, racist, discriminatory, or harassing language and imagery is not appropriate in our community, in person or online.
 
    Harassment includes, but is not limited to, the following:
 
Offensive comments related to gender, gender identity and expression, sexual orientation, disability, mental illness, neuro(a)typicality, physical appearance, body size, age, race, or religion.
Unwelcome comments regarding a person’s lifestyle choices and practices, including those related to food, health, parenting, drugs, politics, and employment.
Deliberate misgendering or use of ‘dead’ or rejected names.
Physical contact and simulated physical contact without consent or after a request to stop.
Threats of violence, deliberate intimidation, stalking, or following.
Harassing photography or recording, including logging online activity for harassment purposes.
Sustained disruption of discussion.
Unwelcome sexual attention.
Patterns of inappropriate social contact, such as requesting/assuming inappropriate levels of intimacy with others.
Online one-on-one communication without explicit consent.
Continued one-on-one communication after requests to cease.
Deliberate “outing” of any aspect of a person’s identity without their consent except as necessary to protect vulnerable people from intentional abuse.
"Negging" or gratuitous questioning of someone's experience or credentials. 
Publication of non-harassing private communication. 
Touching or otherwise interfering with individuals in an immersive experience.
Spreading or promoting misinformation about individuals or groups.
Providing a safe, welcoming space for our community members is something we take VERY seriously.
 
    Recruiting & sales free space
 
To help facilitate a welcoming community, we are asking that companies refrain from organized recruiting activities at our events without explicit permission from the event organizers. One-on-one sales and recruiting pitches without invitation are not allowed.
 
It's okay to love your job, to be excited about your projects, and share your excitement - we love that! (It's why we're here too!) If you think someone would be great for your team or project, it’s cool to exchange contact info and follow up with them. We draw the line at attendees showing up just for the sake of making sales and recruiting.
 
    Weapons Free Space
 
No weapons will be allowed at SiM events. Some exceptions may be made for non-functional, replica weapons used for the purposes of interactive media and cosplay.

    Drugs and Alcohol-Free Space

No illicit drugs or alcohol use are allowed in our physical space. These pose an inherent safety risk to many members of our community that we want to feel included, as well as excluding folks who cannot or choose not to drink. We are resolute in providing a safe and welcoming atmosphere and this decision sits proudly in line with that ambition.
 
    Creating a safe space for interactive media demos

Some of our events may include interactive media demos. Some of these experiences are completely immersive, and those experiencing demos will lose track of what’s going on around them.  In order to ensure that everyone stays safe, we ask that you follow these rules when you’re around others that are in the headset.

    If you are watching someone else experience a demo:
Stay at least 3 feet away from someone wearing any sort of immersive headset. Do not get inside of their personal space. 
Do not touch, scare, or yell at someone that is wearing an immersive headset. This behavior will not be treated as a joke.

    If you are giving demos at one of our events:
Many of our attendees will be having their first experience with your demo. Be sure to ask your guest about their level of experience before you attach any sort of hardware to them.
Explain what your guest is about to see before you put the headset on. If you are demoing content that is triggering, violent, sexual, or could cause any sort of discomfort, warn your guest.
Do not leave your guest alone at the demo station. 
Ask for permission before helping your guest put on or take off any hardware. Be clear about your movements and intentions during the demo. No surprises.
Keep your equipment clean! Bring appropriate sanitation equipment with you (eg. alcohol wipes, headset covers) and clean equipment in between each guest session. 

    If you are experiencing an immersive demo:
Look around before you put on any immersive hardware, such as headsets. Familiarize yourself with your surroundings to know where objects are. 
Practice taking the hardware on and off. 
If you start to feel sick, close your eyes and take off the hardware. The person giving the demo will assist you.
Respect others’ equipment. Immersive media hardware is expensive, so please treat it nicely. 

    General advice for everyone:
Get permission before taking or publishing any photos or videos of attendees in a VR/AR experience. (Keep in mind they cannot see you taking photos while they are inside of a demo.) 

    Event attendance policy
 
As part of providing a safe space, it's important to us to know who is attending our events. Different events will have different policies - please read them! We reserve the right to invalidate your RSVP if you don't meet the criteria for a particular event.
 
At our events, ALL participants must check in at the door. Anyone at our events that has not checked in with our staff will be asked to leave. (If you’re an event host and have additional questions about this, please ask about our event host policies!)
 
    Reporting and Enforcement
 
Providing a consistently safe, welcoming space for our attendees is something we take VERY seriously. Anyone can report harassment or a violation of this code of conduct.  If someone’s behavior has made you uncomfortable, or if you witness the same happening to someone else, please let us know immediately! 

Please see our Reporting and Enforcement Document for more details regarding your role and our procedures following an incident.
 
    To report an incident, do one of the following:
 
Tell any SiM staff member (including the door staff)
Let us know in The SiM Discord via DM (Direct Message)
Via email at seattlesiminfo@gmail.com, which will message all of us (during events and otherwise.)
 
We will have several, easy to identify staff members at every event - you can approach any of us if you have an issue. At every event we will have organizers on-point to make sure issues are documented and dealt with immediately.
 
Violating the code of conduct will be documented and result in an enforcement action from the event organizers which will result in one or more of the following, dependent on severity of violation:
 
A one-time intervention to immediately stop the behavior (isolated from the main event space)
Expulsion from the event in progress
Probationary ban from some or all SiM events
Expulsion from all future SiM events
Escalation to local law enforcement

In general, we will move through those steps in order to address an issue and commit to transparently taking the enforcement action we believe is appropriate for the violation.

In cases of physical violence or extreme harassment, we will provide information to organizers of partner community groups. If we share information about an incident, we will notify those involved. Our goal is to keep the entire community safe.
 
    Final Word
 
We love this community and want to set it up for infinite safe, inclusive, inspiring, amazing events for the years to come.  We are hoping this code of conduct will guide all of us - attendees, organizers, volunteers, sponsors, hosts - toward meeting our goals as a community.

If you have ideas or feedback for this Code of Conduct, please email seattlesiminfo@gmail.com or make a change here and we'll talk about adding it as a community! We are happy to hear your thoughts!
 
  Attributions
 
Putting together a code of conduct takes inspiration, work, and research. It also takes a village - we’d like to thank our community for their contributions and feedback. We took inspiration from events that we've attended and people we love that have created clear and effective Codes of Conduct. We'd like to give a shout-out to VR/AR Collective, Big Bad Con, Geek Girl Con, XOXO, Geek Feminism, and Ashe Dryden, all of whom influenced us and this document. 
